In the last lectures, we had a look at JSON data and that importing data from the web from a restful API
for example
and I want to conclude this module by having a look at how we can get data from a database, specifically
from a MySQL database
and for that, we of course need a MySQL database.
Now feel free to skip this video where I set up the database and fill it with some dummy data
if you already do have a MySQL database to connect with.
So what I will do in the case that you don't have one,
I'll go to mysql.com and since MySQL is free, you can run your own MySQL database for free,
we can go to downloads and choose the community edition which you can find at the bottom here.
Now then on the left, you may choose MySQL on Windows and download the MySQL installer to quickly
get going with MySQL and installing it on your Windows machine,
of course MySQL also runs on Linux and this is just an example because you probably are using a Windows
machine if you're working with Power BI.
So let's download this installer, we'll click on the link first and then at the bottom, you can choose between
two options.
The first one simply is the web installer, here also required files will be downloaded during installation
process,
the second one is the
all is in the installer already alternative.
Now since I won't install all features, I'll go with the web downloader,
the first version here and you're prompted to login but you actually don't have to,
you can just click on
no thanks,
just start my download.
Now this will download the installer obviously and once it did finish, I'll walk through it together
with you.
So the download finished, let's now run the installer, hit run and now in the installer,
we of course have to accept the license terms and here, I recommend choosing custom so that you can customize
what will get installed. We can click next and now what do we need?
We of course need a MySQL server, so the server running our database and just to make this really clear,
this server will run on our local machine for testing purposes because we need a database to connect
to,
of course in a real scenario, that is going to run on a server, on a place in the internet somewhere.
So here let's go to MySQL Server and choose the version which is appropriate for your operating system,
add it to the list of to be installed
features.
We should also have a look at applications though because whilst we do not need the majority of these, the workbench
is pretty handy to be installed because that is a tool running on our local machine which allows us
to administer our database,
so if we want to add some dummy data, add some tables, that is a tool we definitely want to use.
So let's also add this to the list
and with that we're done for now.
You can now hit next
and here, you can choose a place where to install it,
once you adjusted this to your needs, you can hit next again and it will now install the two features or applications
we selected.
Now since I chose the web installer, it will start by downloading these packages and then it'll install
them,
I'll be back when it is finished.
The installation did complete for me, so I can hit next
and now we can configure the MySQL server.
So let's hit next and let's choose the standalone server, we certainly don't want to set up a cluster
here on our local machine, here
the setting should be fine too. Remember the port number,
we're going to need it later when we connect to database and tick show advanced options, so that we
can configure a little bit more and walk through the full setup process. Next again and
now we need to define a root password.
Of course our database is password protected, so choose a password which you of course should remember
thereafter and
once you do this, you can click next,
you could add more user but you don't really need to do that, in a typical, in a real scenario
you probably do have multiple database users
but here having the root user is all we need and we can click OK on this screen here where we decide
how it should run on our Windows machine.
We can click next here too, click next here on the advanced option so you could set up some login if
you wanted to do that and then click execute and now it will apply our configuration, start the server
and do all things it needs to do
so that we have a running MySQL server, I'll be back once it is finished.
It did finish so I can click finish and now we can actually click next one more time and then start
the MySQL workbench,
this tool we can use to administer the database.
So let's hit finish here and it starts up the workbench.
We can now connect to our database by clicking on it and here, we should enter that password you gave
that root user.
So I'll do that
and with that, we're connected to our database server and that's important, to our database server.
Now we can add a new schema which technically is like a new database on our database server because that's
really important,
it's a database server not just one database.
So let's click this new schema button here
and I will name it pbi-test and click apply to create this schema. You can now click finish and you have
this new database on your bottom here. It has no tables though, so let's add a new table with this
button here and we have to select a default schema clicking right on it and then set as default schema.
Now click the new table button, here you can see the schema which was selected
and in this new table, you can give it any name, so I'll name it pbi-data and that of course is totally
up to you.
Now you can actually drag this down, so that you could add columns because of course you want to have columns
in your database table which will structure your data.
You typically have an ID column which is an integer which is your primary key and not null,
so make sure these two are checked.
Then I'll add a new column, I'll name it region and this can be a var char with 45 characters which basically
is a string up to 45 characters long, should also not be null
and of course if I increase that, you can configure way more, right?
If you're a SQL expert,
definitely go ahead and go full nuts on that,
I just want to set up a basic testing database. I'll therefore add a last column, the volume for our
sales like this
and that could be a decimal number,
we can change the type here but I'll just make it an integer since I will use full
whole numbers. I'll set this to not null too
and then click apply
and here you see the SQL command which will be executed
and if you know how to write SQL, you can of course write your own commands.
So I'll click apply here and finish
and now you see that this new table was added.
It is empty though of course
and one quick and easy way of adding data is to right-click it,
select the rows,
of course there are other ways too of importing data and so on
and here in the selected rows, we can now actually start adding rows. So I'll do this, I will add a new row with
the ID one,
here the region could be China with a volume 100, two
could be the USA with 120, maybe name it
USA like that though, three could be India with 110 and then maybe one last
one,
since I live there, choose your country, of course Germany, 80, something like that. Doesn't really matter,
it's just for testing purposes so that we have some data to work with.
With that we can click apply, here you see the insert statements which will be executed and hit apply
again
and with that you get a running MySQL Server with your own table, your own database and your own data
in that table.
And with that in the next lecture, we can actually connect to that service, to that database server and
the database in the database server with Power BI.